+++
title = "aws_api_gateway_v2_routes Resource"
platform = "aws"
draft = false
gh_repo = "inspec-aws"

[menu.inspec]
title = "aws_api_gateway_v2_routes"
identifier = "inspec/resources/aws/aws_api_gateway_v2_routes Resource"
parent = "inspec/resources/aws"
+++

Use the `aws_api_gateway_v2_routes` InSpec audit resource to test properties of multiple AWS API Gateway V2 Routes.

For additional information, including parameters and properties, see the [AWS documentation on AWS APIGatewayV2 Route](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-apigatewayv2-route.html).

## Installation

{{% inspec_aws_install %}}

## Syntax

Ensure that the route exists.

```ruby
describe aws_api_gateway_v2_routes(api_id: 'APP_ID') do
  it { should exist }
end
```

## Parameters

`api_id` _(required)_
: The API identifier.

## Properties

`api_gateway_manageds`
: Specifies whether a route is managed by API Gateway. If you created an API using quick create, the $default route is managed by API Gateway. You can't modify the $default route key.

: **Field**: `api_gateway_managed`

`api_key_requireds`
: Specifies whether an API key is required for this route. Supported only for WebSocket APIs.

: **Field**: `api_key_required`

`authorization_scopes`
: A list of authorization scopes configured on a route. The scopes are used with a JWT authorizer to authorize the method invocation. The authorization works by matching the route scopes against the scopes parsed from the access token in the incoming request. The method invocation is authorized if any route scope matches a claimed scope in the access token. Otherwise, the invocation is not authorized. When the route scope is configured, the client must provide an access token instead of an identity token for authorization purposes.

: **Field**: `authorization_scopes`

`authorization_types`
: The authorization type for the route. For WebSocket APIs, valid values are NONE for open access, AWS_IAM for using AWS IAM permissions, and CUSTOM for using a Lambda authorizer For HTTP APIs, valid values are NONE for open access, JWT for using JSON Web Tokens, AWS_IAM for using AWS IAM permissions, and CUSTOM for using a Lambda authorizer.

: **Field**: `authorization_type`

`authorizer_ids`
: The identifier of the Authorizer resource to be associated with this route. The authorizer identifier is generated by API Gateway when you created the authorizer.

: **Field**: `authorizer_id`

`model_selection_expressions`
: The model selection expression for the route. Supported only for WebSocket APIs.

: **Field**: `model_selection_expression`

`operation_names`
: The operation name for the route.

: **Field**: `operation_name`

`request_models`
: The request models for the route. Supported only for WebSocket APIs.

: **Field**: `request_models`

`request_parameters`
: The request parameters for the route. Supported only for WebSocket APIs.

: **Field**: `request_parameters`

`route_ids`
: The route ID.

: **Field**: `route_id`

`route_keys`
: The route key for the route.

: **Field**: `route_key`

`route_response_selection_expressions`
: The route response selection expression for the route. Supported only for WebSocket APIs.

: **Field**: `route_response_selection_expression`

`targets`
: The target for the route.

: **Field**: `target`

## Examples

### Test to ensure an authorizer ID is available

```ruby
describe aws_api_gateway_v2_routes(api_id: 'APP_ID') do
  its('authorizer_ids') { should include 'AUTHORIZER_ID' }
end
```

### Verify the requirement of the api key

```ruby
describe aws_api_gateway_v2_routes(api_id: 'APP_ID') do
  its('api_key_requireds') { should include true }
end
```

### Verify the authorization type

```ruby
describe aws_api_gateway_v2_routes(api_id: 'APP_ID') do
  its('authorization_types') { should include 'JWT' }
end
```

### Verify the operation name

```ruby
describe aws_api_gateway_v2_routes(api_id: 'APP_ID') do
  its('operation_names') { should include 'OPERATION_NAME' }
end
```

## Matchers

{{% inspec_matchers_link %}}

The controls will pass if the `get` method returns at least one result.

### exist

Use `should` to test that the entity exists.

```ruby
describe aws_api_gateway_v2_routes(api_id: 'APP_ID') do
  it { should exist }
end
```

Use `should_not` to test that the entity does not exist.

```ruby
describe aws_api_gateway_v2_routes(api_id: 'APP_ID') do
  it { should_not exist }
end
```

## AWS Permissions

{{% aws_permissions_principal action="APIGatewayv2:Client:GetRoutesResult" %}}
